URL: https://docs.python.org/3/library/syslog.html

Title: 35.13. syslog — Unix syslog library routines — Python 3.5.2 documentation

Doc Id: 270

Meta Tags : No meta tag found in document

Date :Jun 27, 2016

Content :This module provides an interface to the Unix syslog library routines.
Refer to the Unix manual pages for a detailed description of the syslog
facility.
This module wraps the system syslog family of routines.  A pure Python
library that can speak to a syslog server is available in the
logging.handlers module as SysLogHandler.
The module defines the following functions:
Send the string message to the system logger.  A trailing newline is added
if necessary.  Each message is tagged with a priority composed of a
facility and a level.  The optional priority argument, which defaults
to LOG_INFO, determines the message priority.  If the facility is
not encoded in priority using logical-or (LOG_INFO | LOG_USER), the
value given in the openlog() call is used.
If openlog() has not been called prior to the call to syslog(),
openlog() will be called with no arguments.
Logging options of subsequent syslog() calls can be set by calling
openlog().  syslog() will call openlog() with no arguments
if the log is not currently open.
The optional ident keyword argument is a string which is prepended to every
message, and defaults to sys.argv[0] with leading path components
stripped.  The optional logoption keyword argument (default is 0) is a bit
field – see below for possible values to combine.  The optional facility
keyword argument (default is LOG_USER) sets the default facility for
messages which do not have a facility explicitly encoded.
Changed in version 3.2: In previous versions, keyword arguments were not allowed, and ident was
required.  The default for ident was dependent on the system libraries,
and often was python instead of the name of the python program file.
Reset the syslog module values and call the system library closelog().
This causes the module to behave as it does when initially imported.  For
example, openlog() will be called on the first syslog() call (if
openlog() hasn’t already been called), and ident and other
openlog() parameters are reset to defaults.
Set the priority mask to maskpri and return the previous mask value.  Calls
to syslog() with a priority level not set in maskpri are ignored.
The default is to log all priorities.  The function LOG_MASK(pri)
calculates the mask for the individual priority pri.  The function
LOG_UPTO(pri) calculates the mask for all priorities up to and including
pri.
The module defines the following constants:
A simple set of examples:
An example of setting some log options, these would include the process ID in
logged messages, and write the messages to the destination facility used for
mail logging:
35.12. nis — Interface to Sun’s NIS (Yellow Pages)
36. Superseded Modules

    Enter search terms or a module, class or function name.
    

