URL: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/whatnow.html

Title: 13. What Now? — Python 3.5.2 documentation

Doc Id: 361

Meta Tags : No meta tag found in document

Date :Jun 27, 2016

Content :Reading this tutorial has probably reinforced your interest in using Python —
you should be eager to apply Python to solving your real-world problems. Where
should you go to learn more?
This tutorial is part of Python’s documentation set.   Some other documents in
the set are:
The Python Standard Library:
You should browse through this manual, which gives complete (though terse)
reference material about types, functions, and the modules in the standard
library.  The standard Python distribution includes a lot of additional code.
There are modules to read Unix mailboxes, retrieve documents via HTTP, generate
random numbers, parse command-line options, write CGI programs, compress data,
and many other tasks. Skimming through the Library Reference will give you an
idea of what’s available.
Installing Python Modules explains how to install additional modules written
by other Python users.
The Python Language Reference: A detailed explanation of Python’s syntax and
semantics.  It’s heavy reading, but is useful as a complete guide to the
language itself.
More Python resources:
For Python-related questions and problem reports, you can post to the newsgroup
comp.lang.python, or send them to the mailing list at
python-list@python.org.  The newsgroup and mailing list are gatewayed, so
messages posted to one will automatically be forwarded to the other.  There are
hundreds of postings a day, asking (and
answering) questions, suggesting new features, and announcing new modules.
Mailing list archives are available at https://mail.python.org/pipermail/.
Before posting, be sure to check the list of
Frequently Asked Questions (also called the FAQ).  The
FAQ answers many of the questions that come up again and again, and may
already contain the solution for your problem.
12. Virtual Environments and Packages
14. Interactive Input Editing and History Substitution

    Enter search terms or a module, class or function name.
    

