URL: https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/weakref.html

Title: Weak Reference Objects — Python 3.5.2 documentation

Doc Id: 528

Meta Tags : No meta tag found in document

Date :Jun 27, 2016

Content :Python supports weak references as first-class objects.  There are two
specific object types which directly implement weak references.  The first is a
simple reference object, and the second acts as a proxy for the original object
as much as it can.
Return true if ob is either a reference or proxy object.
Return true if ob is a reference object.
Return true if ob is a proxy object.
Return a weak reference object for the object ob.  This will always return
a new reference, but is not guaranteed to create a new object; an existing
reference object may be returned.  The second parameter, callback, can be a
callable object that receives notification when ob is garbage collected; it
should accept a single parameter, which will be the weak reference object
itself. callback may also be None or NULL.  If ob is not a
weakly-referencable object, or if callback is not callable, None, or
NULL, this will return NULL and raise TypeError.
Return a weak reference proxy object for the object ob.  This will always
return a new reference, but is not guaranteed to create a new object; an
existing proxy object may be returned.  The second parameter, callback, can
be a callable object that receives notification when ob is garbage
collected; it should accept a single parameter, which will be the weak
reference object itself. callback may also be None or NULL.  If ob
is not a weakly-referencable object, or if callback is not callable,
None, or NULL, this will return NULL and raise TypeError.
Return the referenced object from a weak reference, ref.  If the referent is
no longer live, returns Py_None.
Note
This function returns a borrowed reference to the referenced object.
This means that you should always call Py_INCREF() on the object
except if you know that it cannot be destroyed while you are still
using it.
Similar to PyWeakref_GetObject(), but implemented as a macro that does no
error checking.
MemoryView objects
Capsules

    Enter search terms or a module, class or function name.
    

