URL: https://docs.python.org/3/license.html

Title: History and License — Python 3.5.2 documentation

Doc Id: 9

Meta Tags : No meta tag found in document

Date :Jun 27, 2016

Content :Python was created in the early 1990s by Guido van Rossum at Stichting
Mathematisch Centrum (CWI, see https://www.cwi.nl/) in the Netherlands as a
successor of a language called ABC.  Guido remains Python’s principal author,
although it includes many contributions from others.
In 1995, Guido continued his work on Python at the Corporation for National
Research Initiatives (CNRI, see https://www.cnri.reston.va.us/) in Reston,
Virginia where he released several versions of the software.
In May 2000, Guido and the Python core development team moved to BeOpen.com to
form the BeOpen PythonLabs team.  In October of the same year, the PythonLabs
team moved to Digital Creations (now Zope Corporation; see
http://www.zope.com/).  In 2001, the Python Software Foundation (PSF, see
https://www.python.org/psf/) was formed, a non-profit organization created
specifically to own Python-related Intellectual Property.  Zope Corporation is a
sponsoring member of the PSF.
All Python releases are Open Source (see https://opensource.org/ for the Open
Source Definition). Historically, most, but not all, Python releases have also
been GPL-compatible; the table below summarizes the various releases.
Note
GPL-compatible doesn’t mean that we’re distributing Python under the GPL.  All
Python licenses, unlike the GPL, let you distribute a modified version without
making your changes open source. The GPL-compatible licenses make it possible to
combine Python with other software that is released under the GPL; the others
don’t.
Thanks to the many outside volunteers who have worked under Guido’s direction to
make these releases possible.
BEOPEN PYTHON OPEN SOURCE LICENSE AGREEMENT VERSION 1
This section is an incomplete, but growing list of licenses and acknowledgements
for third-party software incorporated in the Python distribution.
The _random module includes code based on a download from
http://www.math.sci.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/~m-mat/MT/MT2002/emt19937ar.html. The following are
the verbatim comments from the original code:
The socket module uses the functions, getaddrinfo(), and
getnameinfo(), which are coded in separate source files from the WIDE
Project, http://www.wide.ad.jp/.
The source for the fpectl module includes the following notice:
The asynchat and asyncore modules contain the following notice:
The http.cookies module contains the following notice:
The trace module contains the following notice:
The uu module contains the following notice:
The xmlrpc.client module contains the following notice:
The test_epoll contains the following notice:
The select and contains the following notice for the kqueue interface:
The file Python/pyhash.c contains Marek Majkowski’ implementation of
Dan Bernstein’s SipHash24 algorithm. The contains the following note:
The file Python/dtoa.c, which supplies C functions dtoa and
strtod for conversion of C doubles to and from strings, is derived
from the file of the same name by David M. Gay, currently available
from http://www.netlib.org/fp/.  The original file, as retrieved on
March 16, 2009, contains the following copyright and licensing
notice:
The modules hashlib, posix, ssl, crypt use
the OpenSSL library for added performance if made available by the
operating system. Additionally, the Windows and Mac OS X installers for
Python may include a copy of the OpenSSL libraries, so we include a copy
of the OpenSSL license here:
The pyexpat extension is built using an included copy of the expat
sources unless the build is configured --with-system-expat:
The _ctypes extension is built using an included copy of the libffi
sources unless the build is configured --with-system-libffi:
The zlib extension is built using an included copy of the zlib
sources if the zlib version found on the system is too old to be
used for the build:
The implementation of the hash table used by the tracemalloc is based
on the cfuhash project:
The _decimal Module is built using an included copy of the libmpdec
library unless the build is configured --with-system-libmpdec:
Copyright
Distributing Python Modules (Legacy version)

    Enter search terms or a module, class or function name.
    

